README.rst, before:

Mendeley Python SDK
===================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/format/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/mendeley-python/badge/?version=latest
  :target: https://readthedocs.org/projects/mendeley-python/?badge=latest
.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/Mendeley/mendeley-python-sdk.svg?branch=master
  :target: https://travis-ci.org/Mendeley/mendeley-python-sdk

The Mendeley Python SDK provides access to the `Mendeley <http://www.mendeley.com>`_ API.  For more information on the
API and its capabilities, see the `developer portal <http://dev.mendeley.com>`_.

Installation
------------

Install from `PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi>`_ using `pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/>`_, a
package manager for Python.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install mendeley

Documentation
-------------

Full documentation, including examples, can be found on `ReadTheDocs <http://mendeley-python.readthedocs.org/>`_.

Compatibility
-------------

The SDK has been tested with Python 2.7 and 3.4.

Sample applications
-------------------

There are two sample applications that illustrate how to use the SDK:

- `mendeley-api-python-example <https://github.com/Mendeley/mendeley-api-python-example>`_, a
  `Flask <http://flask.pocoo.org/>`_ web application for accessing a user's library.
- `mendeley-api-python-catalog-example <https://github.com/Mendeley/mendeley-api-python-catalog-example>`_, a
  command-line application for accessing the Mendeley catalog.

Commit message:

Put things that will not work on CI in the manual folder

README.rst, after:

Mendeley Python SDK
===================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/format/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/mendeley.svg
  :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/mendeley/
.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/mendeley-python/badge/?version=latest
  :target: https://readthedocs.org/projects/mendeley-python/?badge=latest
.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/Mendeley/mendeley-python-sdk.svg?branch=master
  :target: https://travis-ci.org/Mendeley/mendeley-python-sdk

The Mendeley Python SDK provides access to the `Mendeley <http://www.mendeley.com>`_ API.  For more information on the
API and its capabilities, see the `developer portal <http://dev.mendeley.com>`_.

Installation
------------

Install from `PyPI <https://pypi.python.org/pypi>`_ using `pip <http://www.pip-installer.org/en/latest/>`_, a
package manager for Python.

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install mendeley

Documentation
-------------

Full documentation, including examples, can be found on `ReadTheDocs <http://mendeley-python.readthedocs.org/>`_.

Compatibility
-------------

Inspect the .travis.yml file to find out which Python versions have been tested with this project.

Development
-----------

To obtain dependencies for this project, follow the steps in the .travis.yml file.

Important note about testing: in the CI environment, it is not (yet) possible to test interactions
with API endpoints that require user access tokens. Any tests which are precluded from working
in the CI environment should be located in the `test/manual` folder. However, it should be possible
to run all tests *locally* on your dev workstation, if you have registered a platform app, and you
have obtained a user account that you don't mind testing against (and making a mess inside).

Sample applications
-------------------

There are two sample applications that illustrate how to use the SDK:

- `mendeley-api-python-example <https://github.com/Mendeley/mendeley-api-python-example>`_, a
  `Flask <http://flask.pocoo.org/>`_ web application for accessing a user's library.
- `mendeley-api-python-catalog-example <https://github.com/Mendeley/mendeley-api-python-catalog-example>`_, a
  command-line application for accessing the Mendeley catalog.
